---
title: Carte Blanche
next-deadline: 2017-12-31
link: https://carte-blanche.submittable.com/submit
---

Simultaneous submissions: We accept simultaneous submissions. Please indicate in your cover letter if you are sending your piece elsewhere and notify us immediately if it is accepted somewhere else.

Rights: We ask for first world serial rights and the right to archive your work on the website. Copyright reverts to the author upon publication.

Payment: carte blanche pays a modest honorarium per submission. We hope to increase the amount in the future.

## WHAT TO SEND

### Fiction and creative nonfiction

We like narrative: a story that moves from some kind of a beginning to some kind of an end, be it short fiction, memoir, personal essay or literary journalism. If it’s well written and tells a story, we’ll consider it.

Creative nonfiction submissions should be factual. Any changes to names to protect privacy should be indicated in an author’s note.

Word limit: 3500 words; maximum of two prose submissions per author per issue; each submission must be on a separate document and uploaded separately.

### Poetry

Send us your best work.  From odes and haikus to free verse and sonnets, we welcome poems in any form.  Limit: 3 poems per person per submission round. Please upload each poem separately.

### Photography

Tell a story in 12 photos or fewer. Together, your photos should create a narrative – whether abstract or concrete – and have something to say.

Send a Word or PDF doc with your work pasted in it and include a statement, captions, and any other relevant text. If your work is selected for publication, we will contact you for a high-res version of the photo essay. Final submissions must be in JPG or PNG format.

### Audio

We are open to audio submissions but only if you send a query to us first. Please email: editors@carte-blanche.org.