---
title: Event Poetry and Prose
next-deadline: N/A
link: http://eventmagazine.submittable.com/submit
---

Fiction: Whether you’ve never published before, or you’ve published seven novels, we’re looking for the same thing: compelling characters, plots that surprise us, narratives that move us, stories that have something new to say. Please note that we will not be accepting any more general  fiction submissions until mid Summer 2017 at the earliest (we are totally booked).

Poetry: We love poems that are lyrical without being overwrought, and are profound without being pretentious. We look for honesty of emotion, and images that arrest us. Please note that we will not be accepting any more general poetry submissions until mid Summer 2017 at the earliest (we are totally booked).

The Basics:

Submit up to eight poems, or one short story (maximum 5,000 words), at a time. Use standard manuscript formatting. Each poem or story/essay must be saved as its own separate file (.doc, .docx, .rtf, .txt or .pdf file formats only). Be sure to submit under the proper category (genre). All work should be previously unpublished.

You will be asked for a brief cover letter with your contact information, the title(s) of your submission(s) and a list of previous publication credits, if any.

The Details:

Simultaneous submissions are fine, but please advise us immediately should a piece under consideration be accepted elsewhere.
We accept prose and poetry submissions year round, but we don’t read during January, July, August or December, so response times during those months may be longer.
We review every manuscript we receive, most of which are unsolicited. During high volume periods, responses may take up to six months.
Please review our Editorial Policy for rights, payment policies and additional details.
If you don’t already have a free Submittable account, you will be prompted to sign up for one before you submit. It is easy and only takes a few minutes.
Complete details and instructions on how to submit to EVENT are on our Submittable pages.
